I think it would be my dream to always
use the highest quality ingredients. I'd
love to use like old ugly shallotss that
nobody wants and the bad tomatoes and
and like make something beautiful from
waste and and that's my aspiration and
and that business model led down a very
very expensive path
>> and I think is achievable at massive
scale but we're just not there yet.
>> Wait, say more about that. Basically,
that is sort of the the issue with CPG
in general. Um, and
if you want to make a small mom and pop
like locally sourced, like beautifully
made, responsibly, pay your workers
excellent wages, and it's going to be
like a $38 jar of tomato sauce, and it's
going to be a very limited market of
people that are willing to pay for that.
And you know, I look at my local grocery
store and I the first thing I do is I go
to the tomato sauce aisle. I'm just
like, got to know what's going on over
there. But you see Ryos and Carbone on
the same eye level and additional uh
merchandising behind you and they are
both on sale for $8.99 and that's a 32
oz jar.
>> Our jars are 16 ounces and you know
$12.99 or $12 retail.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> So Tracy, uh we're recording this on
February 4th and um a lot of tech stocks
have been getting clobbered lately, but
you know what's doing really well?
>> What?
>> Companies that make uh consumer staples.
All of like the core staples that you'd
see in your pantry, etc., like your
Pepsicas and all this stuff. companies
that might make like jarred sauces and
stuff. People are returning to sort of
uh the old style basics that people buy
in the stock market.
>> Who would have thought that food is
lindy amazing?
>> Food persists. No, but it's serious. You
know, it's like the only place to hide
right now in the market. Like I look at
my screen and everything is bright red
and the only thing that people feel
comfortable betting on right now seems
to basically be food. the the stuff that
people pasta sauce and the stuff that uh
that people have eaten for all time and
probably will be eating for as long as
there are people on earth,
>> right? And this always so I find this
business really interesting because you
know I joke that food is Lindy in many
ways but you know like
>> food is right food is essential but it's
also constantly changing it feels like
and so I'm always very curious about how
consumer brands actually make pricing
decisions branding decisions especially
cuz it also feels like an area that's
very crowded. you know, you walk into
the supermarket and there's like
>> 20 different brands of, I don't know,
flour or something.
>> No, totally. You know, one of the
things, you know, we've done various CPG
episodes over the years. Remember, we
did some episodes about like Celsius
energy drink and stuff. One of the
themes that we sort of maybe I hadn't
appreciated prior is like that
competition for shelf space. The
distribution aspect, getting on the
shelf, getting a spot in the truck that
delivers the beverages to the grocery
store or to the bodega or whatever. Like
so much of the game is yes, the brand,
yes, the product, and then just the sort
of logistical aspects of it. And I think
like that that's sort of we don't talk
about it enough but as a theme I love
like learning about this space how the
uh CPG business works because it just to
your point especially regards to pricing
and so forth it's so illuminatory about
how the whole economy works. Is that a
word? Illuminating.
>> Illuminating. Very good. Well, we do
have the perfect guest.
>> I'm very excited to say we do have the
perfect guest today. Someone who is uh
in the tomato sauce business but really
known for uh so much more. one of the I
would say most famous people in the food
world these days. We are going to be
speaking with Allison Roman. She's a
cook and the author. She has a grocery
store called First Bloom that um I
missed when they had a pop-up Manhattan
location. I missed it. Hopefully uh
that'll get reopened at some point. And
tomato sauce business called a very good
tomato sauce. So Allison, thank you so
much for uh coming on OddLots.
>> Oh, thank you for having me. This is a
pleasure.
>> Where to begin? So you are this a
genuine celebrity of the food world.
People are addicted and they love your
recipes. I just at home two nights ago.
Uh my wife made your um I think it was
like a broccoli cheddar soup that you
have a recipe for. It was fantastic.
It's a deep cut.
>> Um we've had your famous chickpea stew
that went viral. Had multiple recipes go
viral. But how did you decide to get
into why why why a tomato sauce? I think
I well I got my start working in
professional kitchens and I worked in
editorial and then I sort of went off on
my own writing books and doing
miscellaneous things and my whole career
as sort of a recipe writer cookbook
author has been teaching you how to cook
and being like why would you buy
anything when you can make it yourself
you know as the person who their pantry
is lined with like ingredients rather
than I you know things um so it's funny
that I then got into tomato sauce
business because I've written recipes
for tomato sauce and I'm very proud of
mine and I think it's delicious and easy
to make and anyone can do it. And then
the older I got and I married a man who
does not cook. I had a baby. The baby
does not cook yet either unfortunately.
Um I needed to eat more. I needed
someone to cook for me. And it just
became sort of this question I had of
like why am I so allergic to the tomato
sauces on the market? Why am I not
embracing of the things that are
currently available? And I realized it's
because I'm well a very picky. Uh b
probably very snobby. Um c I just was
sort of, you know, like I do want to
make it myself. I do want the sort of
control here. So I made it myself. And
when I had opened the grocery store
first bloom, I decided to start
including it as like a line of things
that we would keep in the freezer.
Chicken broth, beans, tomato sauce,
things that we would make in the store
to sell to people at the market. And
very soon the demand exceeded supply and
I, you know, for all the things that I
do, I did not want to be full-time
making tomato sauce. There was just I
didn't have the equipment. I didn't have
the time. And so I was approached by
somebody who is in the tomato sauce
making business. Um, and she was like,
why don't you just outsource it and have
somebody make your recipe? I was like,
well, how is that going to work? You
know, like how but won't people know the
difference? And how could it possibly
scale? And through a lot of trial and
error, I figured out we can scale it.
>> Definitely want to ask about scaling up.
But before we do, were you daunted at
all by doing tomato sauce specifically
because this seems to be an area where
there is a lot of competition especially
between I can think of two like big
players which would be Rouse and
Carbone,
>> right?
>> What are those?
>> And all the cheap stuff, but I guess
those aren't really the competitors.
Yeah,
>> I bought the Carbone things once, which
probably maybe says something about it.
But anyway,
>> how do you differentiate your product
from, you know, those names with very,
very strong branding and customer
recognition?
>> Yeah, I think it's an interesting thing
because sometimes often people start a
business saying, "What doesn't exist?
There's a hole in the market. I'm going
to fill it." And obviously tomato sauce,
there are many brands constantly
fighting for sale prices and shelf
space. Um, but there wasn't a tomato
sauce like mine and there wasn't I I
find that most tomato sauces on the
market, especially the popular ones,
Ryos, carbone, etc. are more marinara in
style. They are, you know, more uniform
in texture. They are sweeter. They tend
to have oregano. There's just like a
specific vibe that they're going for.
And I think to me, sort of modeled after
the like old school progresso, which is
what my mom bought growing up and that's
what I ate. And I think that that was
sort of the gold standard and people
kind of went down that path. And it's
interesting because we talk about
Carbone as like the, you know, top two.
They are not very old. Yeah. And so we
in our consciousness like, well, that's
the the top two. Well, they've only been
the top two for as long as they've been
around, which somebody can fact check,
but I believe it's only a few years.
>> Yeah, I think that's right. Yeah.
>> So, it's not like this legacy brand that
I'm competing with. It's just another
company with name recognition, a lot of
financial backing, and strong branding.
And I also noticed that all the tomato
sauces were sort of like chef focused
and and
male dominated energy. It was sort of
like a chef, a guy, a bro, a person's
name that was a guy. And I I don't know.
I just was sort of like I want to do
something totally different. Even if
it's tomato sauce, I don't think they're
all created equal. And so with
everything I do, I I genuinely try to
ask myself, does this already exist? And
if not, then I want to make it.
>> I have some thoughts about Chef Bro
energy, but I'm going to save them for
after the podcast. We'll wait.
>> No, I'm going to save that for after the
episode. Let's talk about um I mean I
want to we want to talk about the entire
from your conception in your mind to uh
the end consumer the whole supply chain.
So I want to like really break it down
and understand it. But let's start with
like how do you scale up a recipe?
Because quality control you have some
recipe that you make in your kitchen and
you really like it etc. But then
there's, you know, but then making it in
large batches is a totally different
game. And then you're not there to
supervise it all the time. Talk to us a
little bit about that process, how just
how that even works such that a recipe
that you make at home can be done by
someone else at a different facility in
volume and it's still the same recipe.
>> Yeah. I think that you have to consider,
you know, there's a lot of knowledge
that goes into it of like your knowledge
of cooking and how ingredients, you
know, they're not a one for one. You
can't just multiply it by 10 and be like
this is going to be the same thing.
Also, the equipment is different. How
they're doing things are different. We
have three flavors. We have a garlicky
tomato, which is sort of your classic, a
spicy fennel, um, which is spicy and has
fennel as advertised. Um, and then a
caramelized shallot anchovi, which is
modeled after the shallot pasta, which
is
>> which went viral during the [laughter]
popular I think we all at one point
probably made it.
>> If I if I have no fans, uh, the shallot
pasta will still have a million. Like,
it is it is more famous than I am for
sure. Um, and that was the trickiest one
to nail because the caramelizing of the
shallots, the addition of anchovi.
>> Um,
>> I ended up having to go back three times
after we had jarred the first batch and
adjust the recipe, which I didn't have
to do with the with the others. But
because shallots when you caramelize at
large scale, they tend to get soft and
jammy and very sweet, which increases
the sweetness perception of the final
product,
>> we ended up switching to a different
method of cooking the shallots. I ended
up reducing the amount entirely, cooking
them further. Like it the whole thing
had to change as soon as we started
getting to the batch size. Um, and each
c-acker is different. So, I think, you
know, an issue we can we'll get there.
But if you talk about scaling, it's
>> each c-acker is going to handle things
differently. And right now, we're with a
pretty small c-acker, which I like
because I can visit them in from my
apartment. They're in industry city
Brooklyn. And I go there and I can taste
the batches. I can say, okay, we
multiplied the chili flake in this
recipe and now it's way too spicy. So,
we're actually going to cut it by half,
which is it seems to stand a reason that
that would be not nearly as spicy, but
because of the way the ingredients
behave, it is, you know, so stuff like
that where
>> you're sort of in the lab as it were,
tweaking as it goes. And I think that
the more I explore the CPG world, that
is the biggest challenge of you can't
just send a recipe in and hope for the
best. like you really have to be
tweaking and adjusting at scale.
>> How big is the tomato sauce making
operation right now? Like in people,
>> it's two people.
>> Two people in the kitchen.
>> Relatively small.
>> Yes, they have big massive kettles. And
I think that also when you think of like
why tomato sauce like I just I kind of
knew that getting there would maybe be
the path of least resistance and in that
I'm not inventing something from
scratch. we're not, you know, requiring
equipment that nobody has. Like these
are kettles that you can make many
different things in. And so c-ackers are
a bit easier to find. Um these
particular c-ackers specialize in tomato
sauce and most that I've encountered do
and that's like what they do.
>> Um
>> and so they are, you know, well
informed.
>> I sorry I might ask just a lot of like
really remedial questions about this. So
>> let's go deep. Yeah. The the kitchen,
the twoperson kitchen where they're
making that is a separate facility than
the c-acker. Or is it the same entity?
>> It's the same entity. Okay. So, we have
we have the the place the warehouse
where the tomato sauce gets made. They
get the jars in, they sterilize the
jars, they make the sauce, they batch
the sauce, they put them in the boxes.
The boxes then get shipped to a third
party logistics warehouse, which is
actually not far from where the tomato
sauce is made. So, we cut down on
shipping a bit. Um, and that is where
the tomato sauce comes from when you
order it online. Cuz right now we are we
do have it in store up in the upstate
grocery store. But um, for a few reasons
which we can also get into, we are just
DTOC.
>> Got it.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and then again maybe very obvious
question when it comes to you know maybe
at some point you grow and there'll be
10 people etc. In the food industry, are
there chefs whose job is more or less to
specialize in cooking at scale that
basically it's like, okay, someone has
an idea for a tomato sauce like you, you
know, you're not you can't be there
every day. Are there people who like
have professionalized the art of scaling
up a recipe in volume?
>> I I mean, I've never heard of that job
specifically, but I mean, the guy
>> uh who makes the tomato sauce for us,
like that is his primary. I mean he was
a chef you know did a lot of catering
private chefing etc. And then I think to
understand how to make things at at
scale, you do have it's a lot of trial
and error. You have to like understand
it from a different perspective. But
even working in restaurants, I
experienced this because you take
recipes built for a home cook,
especially say baking. You're going to
make biscuits for a restaurant. You take
a recipe that you like from somebody's
cookbook. What? I don't know.
>> Um, and you're like, "Okay, well now I
have to make these biscuits for I have
to make 200 of them a day. I'm not
making 16."
>> And you cannot just multiply that recipe
ever. And so I had a bit of experience
in in the baking world working at scale
because you're never making 16 of
something in a pastry kitchen. You're
making 200. And so you kind of
understand and and also conversely
working at the Bonapetit test kitchen.
When I first started working there, we
were doing a lot more chef driven
recipes. And when you work in a
professional kitchen, you're making
sauce. You're making 16 quarts of sauce.
You're not making two cups of sauce. So
it was sort of reverse engineering that,
understanding that it it's the same
thing. the ingredients eb and flow even
if you're decreasing. So, it's just kind
of having that knowledge ahead of time.
But, I think that's how those people
find themselves as a c-acker. And as we
look into other products to make, it's
like, okay, well, these guys specialize
in baked goods. These guys specialize in
granola. These guys, you know, and
they're that's what they do. So, they
they know.
>> How did you go about finding suppliers?
because you know I I imagine you have
some connections with your grocery store
to you know farmers maybe but if you're
doing it at scale or a larger scale than
previously how do you actually find
someone who's going to provide you with
a steady supply of tomatoes or a steady
supply of shallots and anchovies I
guess.
>> Yeah, we use canned tomatoes. Um in the
summer we will do limited edition um
quantities of things like you know
bruised tomatoes, sunold tomatoes, like
more inseason fresh stuff, but because
tomatoes are so seasonal and I also
believe the best tomato sauce does come
from canned tomatoes. Um that part isn't
an issue, but it really is I had uh
worked with this woman Isabelle who had
more experience in CPG and we sort of
figured it out together with um my chief
of staff Narnney. And it was kind of the
three of us looking at numbers and
saying like who's located where? What is
the shipping going to cost? What
tomatoes are they using? What tomatoes
can they get? What is their capacity?
Like how how quickly can we grow here?
And so all of those things come into
factor because honestly the type of
shallots you're using at that scale
doesn't really matter. I think it
[clears throat] would be my dream to
always use the highest quality
ingredients. I'd love to use like old
ugly shallotss that nobody wants and
[clears throat] the the bad tomatoes and
and like make something beautiful from
waste and and that's my aspiration and
and that business model led down a very
very expensive path and I think is
achievable at massive scale but we're
just not there yet.
>> Wait, say more about that.
>> Basically that is sort of the the issue
with CPG in general. Um, and
if you want to make a small mom and pop
like locally sourced, like beautifully
made, responsibly, pay your workers
excellent wages, and it's going to be
like a $38 jar of tomato sauce, and it's
going to be a very limited market of
people that are willing to pay for that.
And,
>> you know, I look at my local grocery
store and I the first thing I do is I go
to the tomato sauce aisle. I'm just
like, got to know what's going on over
there. But you see Rayo's and Carbone on
the same eye level and additional uh
merchandising behind you and they are
both on sale for $8.99 and that's a 32
oouncez jar.
>> Our jars are 16 ounces and you know
$12.99 or $12 retail. Joe, I'm going to
betray my elder millennial status, but
I'm thinking of that Friends episode
where Monica starts making jam and
selling it and then she realizes that
like in order to break even, it has to
be $17 per jar, which was a lot back
then.
>> That was a lot back then.
>> Well, guess who else made jam? And me. I
did. [laughter]
>> Tell us about your jam making
experience. I mean, that was a million
years ago when I first moved to New York
and I was working at Milkbar at the time
and used their commissary kitchen to
sort of decide I was going to make jam
and sell it at the Williamsburg
Smoresburg and when it first launched
and
>> same. Oh yeah, baby. And I, you know,
handwriting each label like getting
beautiful wet jars which cost $4 a piece
like the economics were so poor.
>> I didn't care. I wanted to do it anyway.
And as long as we could make more money
to buy more jars and then make more jam,
obviously that was not sustainable. It
didn't last for very long, maybe a year
and a half. But same concept where okay,
in order to get this actually done and
to actually turn a profit, you're like,
okay, well that's why people go for the
jugular immediately and seek out, you
know, investment and say we need to be
in Target to launch.
>> Let's talk about business scale. One of
my favorite books I've read um is by um
is the autobiography of the Nike founder
Phil Knight
>> Shoe Dog.
>> Shoe Dog and he talks a lot about you
know they started small with sneakers
and then there was you know this sort of
jump where it's like he had the
opportunity to get a lot bigger.
>> Banks didn't really want to give him
loans because it seemed dicey.
[clears throat] It wasn't like a VC
style business but he clearly needed
capital to sort of take it to the next
level like bigger factories etc. talk to
us a little bit about like financial
scaling and the risks that involve like
okay one day you don't want it to just
be two people in a kitchen you want it
to be 20 people or 200 people in a
kitchen well that requires a lot of
upfront costs and new warehouses maybe
talk about to us about how you're
thinking about that or what you've seen
on the landscape in terms of your
options
>> yeah I mean it seems like the what
you're fed in terms of like the media
coverage of brands and you're like oh
this brand has $3 million out the gate
and this brand has six And that doesn't
mean that brand's going to succeed. That
doesn't mean that that brand million in
the hole because they have to pay that
back multiple interest before the
founder sees a penny of it.
>> Exactly. And it also means that there's
a lot of pressure to increase SKUs and
marketing and it it's a to me a very
overwhelming landscape that is not
rooted in authenticity or something
being good. And that to me is always
going to be the most important thing
that I do. I also want to do it
intelligently and make sure that it's
not like a financial crazy firestorm.
I think that right now, literally today
after this, I'm going to a few meetings,
but I am right in the thick of it of
figuring out that the answer to that
question of like who do I hire? How do I
hire them? At what level? Who's going to
actually help me? Who basically my
desire is to hire somebody, two people,
three people who are excellent at what
they do. I am not a business person. I
am a tomato sauce person. I make tomato
sauce and I make really good tomato
sauce. I don't know how to do these
other things. And what I do know is that
I'm not trying to scale up at such an
intense rate that it sacrifices the
quality or the integrity or puts me in a
position to grow the business faster
than I want to. And you know, I think
it's interesting because a lot of times
people start businesses, especially in
the food CPG world, where the immediate
thought is before they've even made the
product, how do I sell it?
>> Like how do I [clears throat] what's my
exit? Okay, in six years we could make,
you know, it's like what happened to
just making a great product that people
are really into. And I think I have the
luxury of having 42 other jobs. And so,
you know, I'm a writer. I I do video. I
make cookbooks. And
>> I think that knowing that this isn't my
primary, you know, the the one thing
that I'm betting on. But I do think that
there's a sort of credibility that's
been lost in developing products. And I
think that people are going to start to
want that. And I think that they're
going to be like, "Well, why would I buy
this person's tomato sauce?" Like,
"Because I'm seeing it everywhere or
this one because I trust it that it
comes from a good place."
>> What kind of lenders or investors do you
actually talk to for this sort of thing?
Is it like VC or
>> I don't yet, but that would ostensibly
be it. I think that for me personally,
I've self-funded every project I've ever
done and I've kind of taken this to its
maximum um in that I'm I'm not that in
the red and it it will I will be whole
probably by the end of the year, which
is great. Um,
it's more that I want to be sure if I'm
going to ask for money, it's I want to
ask for money from people that
understand me and are not expecting me
to be someone else or or model my
business off after those other ones that
they see as being successful. And I say
that today, ask me next year and I might
be in a different position. But I think
it's sort of, you know, a friends and
family round style. Um, or one main
investor who sort of sees me, sees the
goal, and is like, I want to be the lead
and I want to be sort of the primary.
>> Do you have to bring like actual jars of
the sauce when you meet with investors?
I I know you haven't done it yet, but
I'm really curious. If you have a food
company, is that a requirement or are
people just looking at the numbers and
the branding and the distribution
network and saying,
>> "I don't think it could hurt. I think
that if you are a lesserk known
quantity, that's probably a must. I
would I mean I I'd want you to know what
I'm selling you and why you should
invest in it is is giving Shark Tank.
[laughter]
>> Um but I think for me, I've been very
fortunate that I've already sort of been
approached by people that are like, I
like what you do. I like everything that
you do. Everything you do works and like
I have no reason to believe this would
be any different. Even though I do know
given the saturation of the market and
how crowded it is, it is sort of a why
would you enter into what was
effectively the most crowded you know
market but again I see my contribution
as being unique.
>> This might be sort of a sensitive
question. You know there is a I think
you have cult status within uh certain
among some people. We seem to be in an
age where people with a certain level of
cult status, they have these fans who
like really just like they want to buy
something from you. They're excited to
give that the opportunity to do business
with you.
>> Yes.
>> Taylor Swift's fans are want her to make
five different color vinyl versions of
each album because they're really
excited about that. And they'll buy each
one. Yeah. and Donald Trump's fans
really like want him to like, you know,
make a vodka brand and whatever because
they're excited about buying Trump
vodka. [laughter] I know. Um, do you
feel that like do you feel that you have
like a base that is enthusiastic about
the prospect of essentially supporting
you and like being part of your, you
know, growing your world?
>> Yeah, I think that I am very fortunate
to have been in this industry for as
long as I have. And I think that with
that comes a reputation and trust and
you cannot buy that trust and you cannot
force it to happen over a short period
of time. And I think that it is
familiarity but it above all people are
like I know this works or I know when
she recommends something it is good. And
so it stands to reason if I'm going to
make if I'm going to put my name behind
something and like put my own money
behind starting a company like this
isn't a money grab. You know it's not
the most lucrative thing I do. It's a
definite loss leader. Uh but it's sort
of for now anyway. Um but I think that
there is a hopefully I I would imagine
people would think if she's going to do
this, I know it's going to be good. And
I get a lot of feedback on the sauce.
People saying I've never bought sauce in
my life, but I am curious. Or it's
people that were like me 10 years ago
cooking from dining in, cooking from,
you know, nothing fancy. Well, eight
years ago, but you know, and thought to
themselves, well, I'll never make tom
I'll never buy tomato sauce cuz I make
my own. And now their lives have changed
and their perspectives are different and
they're like, you know what, I might buy
tomato sauce.
>> How are you thinking about distribution?
Because as Joe mentioned in the intro,
one thing we've learned from
conversations with different food and
drinks and snack companies is like you
kind of live and die by the shelf space
that you get.
>> Oh yeah. High level, baby.
>> Okay. And then also like which comes
first? Is it a distribution agreement or
the actual scaling of the operation?
>> This is exactly where I'm at right now.
I'm like in the thick of these
conversations of trying to figure that
out because do I find a new co-acker
that can meet the the needs of
potentially being in Whole Foods? Well,
then without a Whole Foods contract, I'm
sitting on potentially hundreds of
thousands of dollars of product. And
where does that product go? Then I'm
paying for storage for that product. So,
how do you move that without having that
deal in place? You also, I would
imagine, Whole Foods is not going to
give you something unless they know for
certain that you can produce it. And I'm
assuming they want some proof of
concept. But right now, I'm I'm it's
very chicken or the egg. And I'm sort of
like, okay, what has to happen first? Is
it the the person who's going to get me
that relationship with Whole Foods? Is
it the c-acker that I know can fulfill
and execute at the level that I want?
And you know, these questions are being
asked and answered very quickly. And you
know, next if we had done this meeting
next week, I probably would have a
better answer for you. Um,
>> can you come back in two weeks? We just
do a quick follow.
>> Well, it's so funny. I'm sure anyone
listening to this that does know a lot
about CPG is like, "This woman has no
idea what she's talking about." But I I
believe that's part of my charm in that
I kind of jump into everything that I do
like really curious and excited. And I
actually think that there's a lot of
benefit to not knowing because I think
getting hung up on how things are done
and what is the norm kind of limits you.
Are you just like surrounded right now
by like food industry execs that are
promising they can take your business to
the next level? Maybe they did a stint
at Whole Foods or something like that
and like hire me. We can you know
there's a few there's a few there's yes
the inbox is very busy right now. Um and
I will say primarily women which is
really encouraging. Um and yeah I think
there's always somebody that's like I
can help you and then some people that
are like I want skin in the game. Some
people are like, I want to help you find
the money so that I can have skin of the
game in the future. And I think that
these companies become so hot and then
often plateau or crash or people don't
care anymore. Protein's no longer a
thing. Nobody wants to drink this type
of thing. But to me, I'm such a legacy
brand person and I believe so
firmly in well-made products that are
built to last that never go out of
style. And to me, this is that. And I'd
rather be successful over a really long
term than like a flash in the pan or
like hot right now and then next year
nobody cares and then I'm
>> Yeah. Um tomato sauce is definitely
Lindy I think.
>> Um do you know I Lindy I don't know.
[laughter]
>> Oh
>> I've heard it now four times. No I
>> sort of an in joke just means it means
it's lasted a long time and therefore
one can infer that it will last a long
time.
>> Okay. I love it. I'm gonna adopt that
word in my pitches. [clears throat]
>> It's it's a good word to use. Um, what's
been the most challenging aspect of
building this business? Because, you
know, you're talking about a bunch of
different things all at once. There's
the financing, there's distribution,
there's logistics, there's actually
making the product, branding, all of
that.
>> I will say I sort of did everything that
was easiest first, which was developing
the recipe, figuring out the label, like
the creative fun stuff that I feel
qualified to to weigh in on and execute.
Um, and now we're at the hard part where
it's like, okay, we've made the sauce,
we've sold it, people love it. Okay,
that feels like the hard part for a lot
of people. For me, that was the easy
part. And now, you know, I was saying to
someone the other day, like, what I'm
really craving is an adult in the room.
>> And I need a boss in this venture. You
know what I mean? Like, I I'm so
>> okay. I have the sauce. It's It looks
great. It tastes great. Uh, people want
it. How do what what now? and I need
somebody who knows what they're doing to
come into the room and say, "Here are
the here's the order of operations.
Here's how much that's going to cost.
Here's who's going to do that." Like,
when you're starting a business like
this, there's nobody to tell you. And
so, you do sort of feel a little
vulnerable to people that are like, I
can help you. Yeah.
>> And so, it becomes sort of this
personality vetting and and who's who do
we vibe with? Who do you think
understands you that it doesn't just see
dollar signs? And
it's again built on trust and like who's
going to like really be in this with you
to best advise what's best for you the
business owner and also the product and
not just sort of treat you like a
mouthpiece for a thing that can make the
money. You
>> you mentioned like you have the luxury
of you're not betting your life on this
brand. You have you have your thriving
media empire etc. And so you're in the
position to self-fund and so forth. It
occurs to me like, you know, again,
journalism is in such a a a difficult
time, but like, you know, thinking back
10 years ago, like all these consumer
brands trying to build out a media side,
and you're like, "Oh, we're going to
hire the editor-inchief of Gillette, you
know, because [laughter] we want to like
build a whole series of blogs that are
implicitly about razors and stuff."
>> People can't wait to read.
>> Yeah. This is like, right, because they
think this is going to be the best
marketing is we'll just buy the media
branded. It must be really nice to not
like you already have that part solved
implicitly. It seems so much easier to
start with this media thing that
everybody loves or that lots of people
love and then like add on to these
various products that can be sold on top
of that.
>> Yeah. And I would obviously never call
myself a celebrity, but I think that's
the appeal of the celebrity brand and
why that is so appealing to people when
they're like a, you know, a pop star
that launches a makeup brand and an
actor who launches lingerie. It's like
it's a builtin
excitement. It's a built-in buy in, you
know. And so I think for me, again, I
take that very seriously, that
responsibility very seriously. But I it
is great to know that most of it seems
like what the money goes towards in
addition to hiring is marketing. Because
if you're just like a person that's like
no one knows who you are, you don't have
any food background, but you're like,
I'm going to start a insert blank here,
you know, company that is food. Well,
yeah. If you come from the tech world,
if you come from the business world,
you're already a leg up on me in a lot
of ways, but I'm a leg up on you in a
lot of ways, but one,
>> money unfortunately trumps all. So, I
feel like always sort of at a
disadvantage without that as my thing in
the back pocket because a lot of brands
that begin, they begin from a guy in a
vest and [laughter]
you know, and I don't have that. Have
you seen like I think there are some
memes about it where or like jokes where
it's like some it'll parody some guys
you know working at McKenzie and I
realized I had to quit my job and
dedicate my life to making the ultimate
tortilla chip. Have you seen there's
like all these jokes you see these on
the labels like we were working 9 toive
jobs in New York City and then you're
like why can't we just make sundried
tomatoes or something?
>> Exactly. like why isn't there a cream
cheese for me and you're [laughter] like
yeah I mean if you have a dream you know
and I think that that is very inspiring
when you can have a job that makes you
so much money and then you're like wait
this is soulless and actually I just
want to like make granola sure that's
great I I think that for me I've always
sort of been the inverse where I've
dedicated my life to cooking and food
and like the whole act of it and knowing
that those things like no one gets into
the restaurant business to make money I
started working in restaurants when I
was 19 making$ 750 an
And I never once thought, how will I
make more money? I just thought, wow,
this is great. I'm so happy. I love
cooking. And so to end up here and be
like, okay, I can like put a small
amount towards this. But we've sort of
reached the end of that road um of the
money that I was willing to bet on it.
And it was sort of like I thought pretty
low stakes. I was like, I believe in the
product. I know it's going to sell. And
it did. And it was great. And so now
it's time to consider what's next.
How do you consider what is a middle
class small business? Because it it
stands it feels like it's only extreme
farmers market mom and pop with nobody
knows who you are except if you live in
the town or $5 million debut at Target.
>> Um I have a slightly random question but
since we we're talking food media I
think this has actually come up on the
podcast before but like a long long time
ago. Why do I have to read 3,000 words
of people's life story or like
explaining what an onion is before I get
to the recipe online?
>> Well, originally the reason that I think
that where those complaints originated
from are is blog culture which predates
sort of recipe database like Bonavit,
New York Times cooking, etc. Because
basically in order for those bloggers to
get ad revenue, the person had to scroll
a certain amount. They couldn't just go
to the page and click cuz they wouldn't
see the ad. So the ad revenue couldn't
support them. That is I think like '9s
sort of reasoning. For me as a person
who writes those things,
>> it's because I think people care or it
makes you a better cook and I and it
provides context and richness to the
story of the recipe. That also said, I
often separate the text from the recipe.
So I I write in such a way that often,
like for my newsletter, for example,
there's many many words about something.
It could be a sweater or my baby or a
tomato sauce. And then you jump to the
recipe which has like maybe six
sentences about like why you need to do
what I'm asking you to do so you don't
skip it and mess up the recipe and then
the recipe. But you can always jump to
it. So that also said I always felt very
defensive of that complaint because I'm
a writer and I part of what I do is
writing and I also think that's a huge
part of my success because people are
like emotionally invested in what I'm
asking you to do and also selling you
something. I'm like okay you might not
want to make lentil soup but I'm going
to write something that is so compelling
that you're going to be like oh my god I
have to make this lentil soup and that
is part of my job. And so I do respect
that though. And interestingly enough,
it's one of my favorite things to do
when I'm writing actual cookbooks
because you're limited to the page
versus the internet. You could write
forever. Most people don't have good
editors or editors at all. I don't know
an editor. And one thing that I learned
while working in magazines is you have
to ask yourself, who cares? And so if I
find myself blabbing on about something,
I I think about that person being like,
why do I care about this? And I have to
justify it. And often times I edit stuff
out all the time or I'm like that's
boring or stupid or only I think that's
funny or that's too niche or it doesn't
need to be here. I'm very cognizant of
the fact that if something is too long,
people's eyes glaze over. They don't
care. They are going to lose interest.
So you really fight for every word.
That's especially true in a cookbook
because you have to keep it to a certain
length otherwise it doesn't get printed.
And you know there's a lot that goes
into that for me anyway. And I think
each person that writes recipes or
whatever in the food world will have a
different answer. That's mine.
>> Joe, technology has actually um solved
this problem for me cuz there's there's
a really great app called Paprika
>> and you just like paste in the URL of a
recipe
>> killing people's killing people's but
you you know that that is like the
utility user and like that I'd rather
you do that than like just go on AI to
like be like what you know recipe would
that
>> Oh, I didn't even think about AI. Did I
just
>> Now you just put I know. Damn it.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Really?
>> How often do you cook? Uh, I cook like
all the time on the weekends. I don't
cook in New York because I have a tiny
New York kitchen. Okay. I have a big
kitchen in Connecticut where I can do
like whatever I want.
>> Dream. Yeah.
>> Do you find yourself reading cookbooks
for pleasure ever?
>> Yeah, sometimes. I have an expansive
collection. Um, and I just ordered
what's that food book? It's like how to
eat a wolf or something. Have you ever
heard of that?
>> No. Apparently, it was written in World
War II and it's all about like
>> I guess how to eat frugally when there's
like not so much support. So, I'm
looking forward to that.
>> Rations.
>> How to cook a wolf by MFK.
Yes. Yeah, of course. Sorry. I I thought
it was more contemporary.
>> Okay.
>> So, like I do I do read some food stuff,
but it's when I'm actually cooking,
having to scroll is really difficult cuz
like your hands are covered in like
flour or sauce or whatever and I just
find it distracting. You'll be pleased
to know that on my website there's a a
tab at the beginning that says jump to
recipe and you can always just click on
it and skip all the text.
>> I should have said I have your book by
the way the fancy one. Nothing fancy.
>> Yeah.
>> Speaking of AI and cooking etc. You know
like all media is f perhaps even you but
like all media is very anxious about
>> the presence of AI for various reasons
and people worried how they're going to
navigate it. like traditional food media
like obviously you have a niche you have
a name people really like reading your
stuff like how are you feeling about the
what's the broader landscape look like
these days or what's interesting in the
broader landscape
>> I think the broader landscape and we're
noticing this in TV and also in
newsletter culture both in fashion food
cultural criticism politics we're sort
of going back to what we ran from so
it's like the streamers are bundling and
you can watch all the Oh, wait. That's
cable, right? And then so now the
newsletter people are sort of uh gaining
employees and learning how to bundle
their situation and saying, "Well, I've
deflected and now we're starting a co a
cooperative." I'm like, "Well, that's a
magazine." And so, it's so fascinating
to me and I think any of us that are old
enough to have seen, you know, lived
through the various cycles of media and
and
>> everything is returning to itself. And
you know, I'm sure they'll disband again
and it'll become more about the
individual and now it's, you know,
coming back to magazines.
>> So, you know, the move into tomato sauce
maybe is like a little bit of a um a
difference between your old self or
maybe you would have looked down on that
when you think, okay, tomato sauce. Um
like uh another very hot button thing in
the news, there was a big viral New York
Times article uh a couple of days ago
about people spending crazy amounts of
money on Door Dash and then people love
to sneer at people
>> crazy though cuz some people just love
>> No, like there were like some like
someone was spending
>> $700 on a in a week for him and his
husband I believe, right?
>> Yeah, that's a lot.
>> Yeah. Wait, how much did you say?
>> I think it was $700. Yeah, they were it
was Yeah, it was a couple and like they
spent
>> Wait, what were they buying? Do you
remember? Like what were they getting?
>> All I know is that if my husband and I
order from our favorite Sichuan
restaurant, which is down the street,
embarrassingly enough, sometimes we do
pick up, but if we're getting it
delivered, that can be upwards of
>> hundred plus dollars. It does. And so,
let's say you're ordering from a more
expensive place and you're doing it
seven nights a week. Yeah. $700 plus. It
really I could see how you get there.
The thing that I think also set people
off was the guy in the photo had these
really nice copper pans and pots and
stuff like that. Why did you spend
thousands of dollars to deck out your
kitchen? But apparently he was. But
would you ever you know 10 years from
now there's ever going to be an Allison
Roman like ghost kitchen where you're
>> no that I've been I've been approached
so many times for that and I say more
about that.
>> What's the pitch when they bring it to
you?
>> The pitch is people want highquality
chefmade food. You have a name. People
would go crazy to have Allison Roman's
shallot pasta made by Alison,
>> but I'm not actually
>> making that for you.
>> tomato sauce either,
>> but that I'm not claiming to.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> And and I think that there is to me that
that devalues
what [snorts] I actually do. And
having tomato sauce and then making
something with that tomato sauce feels
very different to me. I also understand
meeting people where they're at. And if
they're not going to make tomato sauce
from scratch, at least they're cooking
something at home. even if it's opening
a jar and adding something to it and
blah blah blah. That to me is not a far
cry. But the the ghost kitchen, the
delivery, the the de it's to me very
impersonal. It it freaks me out. I I
don't care for it. I think it's like a
weird licensing of your name in a way
that feels really inauthentic to me.
>> Have you seen that um that thing Wonder?
>> Yes.
>> I find it really weird.
>> There's one near me.
>> I find it very creepy.
>> Wait, what is it? So, it's like it's a
sort of I think it's ba I don't totally
know the business, but I think it's
basically trying to roll up the Door
Dash and the restaurant at the same time
so that they have this big facility that
can make 30 different kinds of cuisines
and they have their own app and they
have their own delivery drivers. So,
basically just like vertically integrate
the whole supply chain, but they have
this space on um uh not Hust, the one
that starts with D um down in the Lower
East Side.
>> Delansancy.
>> Delansancy. Thank you. And on the
outside it says like a new kind of food
hall. And I was like, oh curious. I like
food hall. So like I walked in and
there's just these um kiosk screens and
on the screens there's like a Mexican
option, an Italian and a Chinese one, a
Japanese.
>> It's like you're at the airport.
>> Yeah. It's like you're at the airport
and then so there's theory 30 kinds of
restaurants.
>> Now you guys are really selling it to
me. I know. It's like hell to me. That
is literally my personal hell. And I I
think also where they get you is they
tell you, a small business owner who's
like a chef who has a restaurant, my
rent's going up. I can't afford $20,000
in rent because blah blah blah, Door
Dash. Okay. So, they come in and say,
"We can give you the space, but no one
can really eat in your restaurant." So,
you're basically cutting out the entire
reason for a restaurant to exist. And
there are so many restaurants whose
business is like 85% delivery and you
walk in and they're empty but they're
able to stay alive because of delivery.
So if you take away that rent
>> and the need to staff and du that's
pretty appealing to a small business
owner
>> and I think it's very predatory. I think
it's very sort of like we can help you
stay alive and it's like well at what
cost? Because you're then sort of you
know I don't know and and some some of
these businesses never start as a brick
and mortar. they are only an idea or
they do take bigname chefs and say we
can do like a fried chicken concept with
your name on it and when you look on
Door Dash or Wonder or whatever it looks
like a real restaurant so you look like
you think you're ordering from a
neighborhood restaurant
>> but it's not a neighborhood restaurant.
>> I've done that before and then I like
walked past where they were actually
making the food and I was like wait a
second I've ordered from there. Um,
speaking of hell, so one of the things
that that has changed in food media um,
over the years is I think the emphasis
on aesthetics, right? So I
>> I think everyone probably does this. I
certainly am guilty, but if I make
something that I'm proud of, I take a
photo of it, post it on social media,
>> otherwise you didn't cook it.
>> Otherwise, I didn't cook it. There's no
proof. How do you think about that
particular aspect when you're coming up
with recipes or, you know, deciding what
to do with your food empire?
>> Yeah, it's funny. I just wrote a an
article about this for the newly
relaunched Gourmet um magazine, which I
don't know if you guys heard about that
or what they're doing, but
>> the Kas trademark for gourmet, the old
magazine had laps.
>> They lit That's crazy.
>> They let it lapse. So this group of
people, one of whom is a friend of mine,
um, took it over and relaunched it as
basically a website and newsletter. So
very interesting thing that they're
doing. It's a very different tone of
voice, very different vibe.
>> They It's sort of like pirates that took
over a ship and you're like, "Oh, this
is not the same gourmet, but I think in
a very fun and cool,
>> smart way." Um anyway, but I I was
thinking a lot about this recently
because it feels like most people now,
especially on the internet, um are
making food to look good. They're
they're reverse engineering of like
what's going to look beautiful and
what's going to look great. And this is
going back to I worked at BuzzFeed Food
for approximately eight months um 15
years ago or 10 years ago. Um how long
ago? I don't know. It was too long ago.
Anyway, but it was sort of like I would
watch them and the way that they
considered what recipes to run and what
they would make videos out of and it was
always like, well, what has cheese and
what has cream and what has this and it
was always reverse engineered from a
visual perspective. And I think that
we're still sort of in that even if
it's, you know, a a lady in her kitchen
or a guy in his kitchen with like a
forward- facing iPhone. And I so I I as
a reaction to this I developed this
recipe for milk cooked in sorry pork
cooked in milk which is a very old
Italian restaurant recipe. It's ugly as
hell. It is just sinful. It is beige and
clumpy with milk curds and soft looking
and it's really disgusting but wow does
it taste good. It's like truly
incredible.
>> Some of the best tasting things are just
like a bowl of slop or they look like
it.
>> Yeah. And I think I it was sort of, you
know, what about this food? Like are we
going to make this food on the internet
anymore? Like because I had considered
what what could I develop for this
magazine that I wouldn't develop for
myself. And I told my friend I was like,
well, I would never put this on my own
really
>> because it's too ugly. But also, I
understand that part of encouraging
someone to eat something is it has to
look good and it also has to sound good.
So the writing has to be there and the
photo has to be there and everything
works in conjunction. But it was just an
interesting exercise and I think that I
said something to the effect of like
we're we're not developing recipes,
we're designing them. And I think that a
lot of people lead with aesthetics and
what they think will quote perform well
versus thinking about is something like
a soulful, authentically created recipe.
Can we just um return a little bit to
the uh tomato sauce, but I'm curious,
you know, one another reason uh we like
to talk about this topic is because you
get a snapshot into the consumer and
pricing and all the etc.
>> When did you conceive of this like when
when did this idea that you were going
to launch a tomato uh
>> in 2023?
>> So like Okay, so two and a half or three
years later.
>> When you look at cost of jars
>> Mhm. the the glass jars when you look at
ingredients or rent like how is the math
working out relative to what it looked
like in 2023 and how volatile is it
still in terms of being able to you know
get a good price on the raw ingredients
or the good price on jars good price on
shipping and stuff like that.
>> Yeah, that hasn't fluctuated too much.
Um again that's really a scale question.
So the reason why DTOC doesn't quite
work for a business model in this way
with something like tomato sauce is
because jars are heavy. Jars of sauce
are even heavier. So your shipping will
always be the thing that gets you.
>> And so there are, you know, we looked
into, you know, we had a c-acker or a
3PL in California and we're like, "Okay,
so we're going to ship the sauce from
Brooklyn to LA and then it's going to go
out to the rest of the C." We're like,
"No, that's going to add $1.50 per jar
or whatever." So you look at every
consideration. Okay, this might be
slightly more expensive here, but we're
saving here. So, that's actually the
better choice. But again, it's scale, so
we could be jars could fluctuate within
a few cents. Um, the packing materials
was something that we really considered
because jars cannot explode on their way
to you,
>> the better the the packaging, the more
expensive the packaging. And so, we
someone told me it was like they're
like, it feels like a old school
election box. We're like, how am I going
to break into this box? She's like, but
all the jars arrived intact. And that
was really important to us. So, we spent
a little bit more money on the
packaging.
>> Wait, how do you actually evaluate the
jars? Are you like tossing them around
or you ship them?
>> You you send it to your parents. You
send it to yourself.
>> Here's a bunch of empty jars. Enjoy.
>> No, you put the sauce. Ah, yeah. You you
there's a lot of like a few trial and
error situations and and some of them
were aesthetic choices of like, oh, I
don't like the way this is or how does
it feel to open it? Is it complicated?
Is it annoying? Is there too much
material? Does it feel wasteful? Um, all
of those things were deeply deeply
considered and then to say nothing of
like do you put a card in there? Do you
put a note? Does it come with a ribbon?
Like the aesthetic choices which also
add cost. And so, you know, of course
that's why the obvious choice is to be
sold in a store because you're not
dealing with any of that. And I think
>> a lot of to me respectable DTOC brands
evolve into retail only. But at first
doing the DTOC model to like get people
into it, to get people hooked, to get
people like excited about a product sort
of then you can show those bigger
retailers like look at all the people
who already love this product who are
going to buy it in your store.
>> So are you like maxed out capacity wise
right now? Are you like busting at the
seams in terms of how much you can move
in a given week or month
>> with tomato sauce?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes.
>> That's great.
>> Very much so. And it's good. And and I
think that the to me the biggest
drawback there is that
>> we launched in September and also the
reason it took so long is because I had
a baby. I was like about to we were
going to launch it and push it and then
I became too close to the due date which
is good cuz I went into labor a month
early.
>> But it I I can't imagine having done
that at the same time. So thank god I
put a pause on it. I was like and we
also redesigned the labels. Like it was
a good reset. It was almost like a false
start. But anyway, we launched in
September and I had these beautiful
photos taken and like I had all these
ideas for campaign and marketing and we
sold out immediately and I was like,
"Okay, well maybe I'll do it the next
week once we're back in stock." We kept
selling out at such a clip that I
couldn't really ever talk about it. So,
I feel like in a way we haven't like
fully even launched with its full
potential.
>> That's right. That's fantastic. Allison
Roman, can you come back in six months
or a year and like after you've had all
of these conversations, then we could do
a part two on what you've learned when
you're
>> when you get the Whole Foods contract.
I'd be super interested what those
discussions are actually like.
>> Yeah. We want to hear about we want to
hear about the ne the what the other
half of the mountain looks like.
>> This is a perfect diary entry of
following a small business. I really am
at the very very start and I think it
would be really fun to come back if and
when things change and this has been
great. I love talking about this stuff.
What a pleasure.
>> Tracy, that was a lot of fun. I don't
know, you've probably noticed this too.
We've probably talked about it. You
know, if you look at the business
section of the Apple podcast's like bet
top podcast list, it's like dominated by
like starting a business podcast
>> entrepreneurs. And
>> maybe we should pivot into I love these
conversations. Maybe we should pivot
into, you know, Diary of an Entrepreneur
type episodes. They're really fun. You
learn a lot.
>> You know what I want to do?
>> Yeah.
>> The OddLots cooking show.
>> Well, should
>> Let's do a cooking video.
>> Yeah, that would be great. We'll get um
a recipe from Allison and we'll cook it
live on
>> and uh Bart from Butter Buttersworths
and all the and um the Zeno's Pizza
guys. We could get all them. Yeah, this
is actually our book idea because we've
never settled on a book that you and I
have wanted to write together. But we
could just do a food one where in each
recipe someone learns something about
>> the supply chain for that business.
>> That is a great idea.
>> If you're listen if you're out there in
publishing and you hear this and you
hear this, hit us up.
>> That's right. Um, no, that was a
fascinating conversation. One thing I
hadn't really
>> considered that much is the difficulty
of deciding when to scale before you
have that big distribution contract
because as Allison said, like it does
feel like a chicken and egg problem
because you have to pitch to the grocery
store or whatever that you can actually
produce this stuff at scale and then you
have to decide whether you want to
invest at scale in order to be able to
make the pitch. No, skill seems just
sort of brutal in every respect, right?
If you raise VC money, then you have a
lot of money to pay back before you ever
see a dime of profit yourself. Same
obviously for lending and that's
probably particularly hard for this. And
then just, you know, you have to get
into a new facility that chicken egg
problem. I'll say it definitely, it
clearly doesn't hurt to have to be a
celebrity. I know she sort of was
>> hesitant about the word, but obviously a
uh a food celebrity. And the other
thing, it didn't come up in the
conversation, but something that I
thought about right after, it's come up
a little bit on our show, is she doesn't
have to pay the Facebook tax, right?
Most companies that are in CPG, a big
chunk of their money immediately goes to
Instagram ads or whatever.
>> And when you own a distribution list,
you have a popular newsletter, etc. that
you could sell out a run without having
to
>> spend like crazy. That's a huge,
>> as she said, like she hasn't even really
been advertising it that much.
Publicizing it. That's a huge light.
>> And she's sold out. Yeah, that's crazy.
All right, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's uh let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Allison Roman on Instagram. She's
Allison E Roman and check out all of her
various brands. Follow our producers,
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman Arman,
Dashelob Bennett at Dashbot, and Kale
Brooks at Kalebrooks. And if you want
more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.comotss.
You'll find our daily newsletter. And we
don't write about food very much, but
but maybe. Yeah.
>> And uh you can join fellow listeners 247
in our Discord, discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video, or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
[music]
>> [music]